

                    ---===[ Qubes Canary 025 ]===---


Statements
-----------

The Qubes core developers who have digitally signed this file [1]
state the following:

1. The date of issue of this canary is March 7, 2021.

2. There have been 66 Qubes Security Bulletins published so far.

3. The Qubes Master Signing Key fingerprint is:

    427F 11FD 0FAA 4B08 0123  F01C DDFA 1A3E 3687 9494

4. No warrants have ever been served to us with regard to the Qubes OS
Project (e.g. to hand out the private signing keys or to introduce
backdoors).

5. We plan to publish the next of these canary statements in the first
two weeks of June 2021. Special note should be taken if no new canary
is published by that time or if the list of statements changes without
plausible explanation.

Special announcements
----------------------

None.

Disclaimers and notes
----------------------

We would like to remind you that Qubes OS has been designed under the
assumption that all relevant infrastructure is permanently
compromised.  This means that we assume NO trust in any of the servers
or services which host or provide any Qubes-related data, in
particular, software updates, source code repositories, and Qubes ISO
downloads.

This canary scheme is not infallible. Although signing the declaration
makes it very difficult for a third party to produce arbitrary
declarations, it does not prevent them from using force or other
means, like blackmail or compromising the signers' laptops, to coerce
us to produce false declarations.

The news feeds quoted below (Proof of freshness) serves to demonstrate
that this canary could not have been created prior to the date stated.
It shows that a series of canaries was not created in advance.

This declaration is merely a best effort and is provided without any
guarantee or warranty. It is not legally binding in any way to
anybody. None of the signers should be ever held legally responsible
for any of the statements made here.

Proof of freshness
-------------------

Sun, 07 Mar 2021 14:11:21 +0000

Source: DER SPIEGEL - International (https://www.spiegel.de/international/index.rss)
Monitoring the Right Wing: German Officials Seek to Turn up the Heat on the AfD
John Bolton on Halkbank: “Trump Wanted To Make an Impression on Erdoğan”
RT Germany: Berlin Fears Growing Influence of Russian Propaganda Platform
Generation Lockdown: Schoolchildren Around the World Face a Steep Uphill Battle
Boom in Somaliland: A Miracle on the Horn of Africa

Source: NYT > World News (https://rss.nytimes.com/services/xml/rss/nyt/World.xml)
Colombia Seeks Justice for War Atrocities Via New Court
In Hong Kong, Foreign Tourists Are Replaced by a Local Variety
Pope Francis Meets Iraq’s Top Ayatollah as Both Urge Peace
Chloé Zhao, ‘Nomadland’ Director, Encounters a Backlash in China
In a Land Dominated by Ex-Rebels, Kosovo Women Find Power at the Ballot Box

Source: BBC News - World (https://feeds.bbci.co.uk/news/world/rss.xml)
Pope Francis visits regions of Iraq once held by Islamic State
Uighurs: Chinese foreign minister says genocide claims 'absurd'
Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe released but faces new court date
Myanmar coup: Party official dies in custody after security raids
US pastor on leave after Melania Trump 'trophy wife' comments

Source: Blockchain.info
000000000000000000021d96387dc5ac0d7b6b5567119ab8ae32de4351700136

Footnotes
----------

[1] This file should be signed in two ways: (1) via detached PGP
signatures by each of the signers, distributed together with this
canary in the qubes-secpack.git repo, and (2) via digital signatures
on the corresponding qubes-secpack.git repo tags. [2]

[2] Don't just trust the contents of this file blindly! Verify the
digital signatures!
