

                    ---===[ Qubes Canary #23 ]===---


Statements
-----------

The Qubes core developers who have digitally signed this file [1]
state the following:

1. The date of issue of this canary is April 9, 2020.

2. There have been 56 Qubes Security Bulletins published so far.

3. The Qubes Master Signing Key fingerprint is:

    427F 11FD 0FAA 4B08 0123  F01C DDFA 1A3E 3687 9494

4. No warrants have ever been served to us with regard to the Qubes OS
Project (e.g. to hand out the private signing keys or to introduce
backdoors).

5. We plan to publish the next of these canary statements in the first
two weeks of September 2020. Special note should be taken if no new canary
is published by that time or if the list of statements changes without
plausible explanation.

Special announcements
----------------------

None.

Disclaimers and notes
----------------------

We would like to remind you that Qubes OS has been designed under the
assumption that all relevant infrastructure is permanently
compromised.  This means that we assume NO trust in any of the servers
or services which host or provide any Qubes-related data, in
particular, software updates, source code repositories, and Qubes ISO
downloads.

This canary scheme is not infallible. Although signing the declaration
makes it very difficult for a third party to produce arbitrary
declarations, it does not prevent them from using force or other
means, like blackmail or compromising the signers' laptops, to coerce
us to produce false declarations.

The news feeds quoted below (Proof of freshness) serves to demonstrate
that this canary could not have been created prior to the date stated.
It shows that a series of canaries was not created in advance.

This declaration is merely a best effort and is provided without any
guarantee or warranty. It is not legally binding in any way to
anybody. None of the signers should be ever held legally responsible
for any of the statements made here.

Proof of freshness
-------------------

Thu, 09 Apr 2020 01:16:49 +0000

Source: DER SPIEGEL - International (https://www.spiegel.de/international/index.rss)
Politicians Call for Fewer Climate Protections During Coronavirus Crisis
Coronavirus: En refusant les eurobonds, l’Allemagne fait preuve d’égoïsme, d’obstination et de lâcheté
Coronavirus: El rechazo alemán de los eurobonos es insolidario, mezquino y cobarde
New York City: Eight Days in the New Capital of Corona
Coronavirus: Il rifiuto tedesco degli Eurobond è non solidale, gretto e vigliacco

Source: NYT > World News (https://rss.nytimes.com/services/xml/rss/nyt/World.xml)
Saudi Arabia, Hit by Coronavirus, Declares Cease-Fire in Yemen: Live Updates
Saudi Arabia Declares Cease-Fire in Yemen, Citing Fears of Coronavirus
Eight U.K. Doctors Died From Coronavirus. All Were Immigrants.
Some of Europe, ‘Walking a Tightrope,’ Will Loosen Coronavirus Restrictions
China’s Coronavirus Battle Is Waning. Its Propaganda Fight Is Not.

Source: BBC News - World (https://feeds.bbci.co.uk/news/world/rss.xml)
Coronavirus: WHO chief urges end to 'politicisation' of virus
Bernie Sanders suspends presidential campaign
Yemen: Saudi-led coalition announces ceasefire
Woman who revealed Clinton-Lewinsky scandal dies
Coronavirus: How Russia's ballet wasn't shut down despite lockdown

Source: Reuters: World News (http://feeds.reuters.com/reuters/worldnews)
WHO head defends handling of coronavirus pandemic against Trump criticism
Brazil turns to local industry to build ventilators as China orders fall through
Ecuador's Moreno calls for probe into handling of corpses in coronavirus outbreak
Australian police take 'black box' off cruise ship in coronavirus homicide probe
Mexico registers 3,181 cases of coronavirus and 174 deaths

Source: Blockchain.info
0000000000000000000d88e12aee57e8aa90ceea6b74b962a39427c5f2fdb6d0


Footnotes
----------

[1] This file should be signed in two ways: (1) via detached PGP
signatures by each of the signers, distributed together with this
canary in the qubes-secpack.git repo, and (2) via digital signatures
on the corresponding qubes-secpack.git repo tags. [2]

[2] Don't just trust the contents of this file blindly! Verify the
digital signatures!
