

                    ---===[ Qubes Canary #3 ]===---


Statements
-----------

The Qubes core developers who undersigned this file [1] state the
following:

1. The date of issue of this canary is June 3rd, 2015.

2. There have been 18 Qubes Security Bulletins published so far.

3. Qubes Master Signing Key fingerprint is:

427F 11FD 0FAA 4B08 0123  F01C DDFA 1A3E 3687 9494

4. No warrants have ever been served to them with regards to the Qubes
OS Project (e.g. to hand out the private signing keys, or to introduce
backdoors).

5. The next such canary statement is planned to be published in the
first week of September 2015. Special note should be taken if no new
canary gets published by that time, or if the list of statements
change without plausible explanation.

Special announcements
----------------------

* We would like to remind that Qubes OS has been designed with the
assumption of all the infrastructure being permanently compromised.
This means we don't (and have never been) assume trust in neither our
updates-serving server(s), source code repositories hosting servers or
services, nor the servers offering Qubes ISO downloads.

* The only reliable way to verify downloaded Qubes ISOs, updates,
source code, or any other resources related to Qubes, is by verifying
digital signatures on the files or on the git tags. The HTTPS
connection to any of our servers is NOT considered a reliable way to
prove anything about the integrity of the resources accessed.

* Joanna Rutkowska, founder and chief architect of the Qubes OS
project, has recently handed off binary signing keys to Qubes R2 and
R3 to Marek Marczykowski-Górecki, Qubes lead developer.

* While we take reasonable steps to assure our signing keys are
difficult to steal, users who consider themselves high-profile targets
should realize it's not unthinkable for a powerful adversary to steal
the keys using e.g. sophisticated physical attacks against us, and
thus might consider building Qubes from sources (this includes both
the ISO and updates) until we implement multi-signature scheme for
binaries signing. Alternatively, such users should consider using Tor
for downloading of Qubes ISOs and updates to make it difficult to
target them selectively by such a powerful adversary and force them to
subvert all Qubes binaries, thus increasing chances of getting caught.

* Additionally, we believe it makes sense for people building Qubes
from sources to run Qubes Builder through a Tor connection to reduce
chances of getting potentially subverted Fedora or Debian packages
(which are used as a base for ISO and templates building) from an
attacker who might have got access to the Fedora or Debian Project
signing keys somehow.

* Qubes provides ease to use, robust, and reasonably secure mechanisms
to use Tor for the above mentioned scenarios.

Disclaimers & Notes
---------------------

This scheme is not infallible. Although signing the declaration makes
it very difficult for a third party to produce arbitrary declarations,
it does not prevent them from using force, or other means like
blackmail, or compromise of the signers' laptops, to coerce us to
produce false declarations.

The news feed quoted below (Proof of Date) serves to demonstrate that
this canary could not have been created prior to the date stated. It
shows that a series of canaries were not created in advance.

This declaration is merely a best effort and provided without any
guarantees, warranty, and is not legally binding in any way to
anybody.  None of the signers should be ever held legally responsible
for any of the statements made here.


Proof of freshness
-------------------

$ date -R -u
Wed, 03 Jun 2015 08:12:26 +0000

$ feedstail -1 -n5 -f {title} -u https://www.spiegel.de/international/index.rss
Erdogan's Challenger: The Man Who Could Save Turkish Democracy
Paid as a Pro-Kremlin Troll: 'The Hatred Spills over into the Real World'
Breaking the Resistance: How Brussels Is Integrating Its Euro-Skeptics
The Rebel of St. Peter's Square: Where Is Pope Francis Steering the Church?
A Man in Full: To Hell and Back in the Chinese Healthcare System

$ feedstail -1 -n5 -f {title} -u http://rss.nytimes.com/services/xml/rss/nyt/InternationalHome.xml
Sports Business: Sponsors React Meekly to Sepp Blatter's Resignation
Sports of The Times: Sepp Blatter: From Defiant to Defeated in Four Fateful Days
Sepp Blatter Decides to Resign as FIFA President in About-Face
U.S. Surveillance in Place Since 9/11 Is Sharply Limited
Huffington Post in Limbo at Verizon

$ feedstail -1 -n5 -f {title} -u http://feeds.bbci.co.uk/news/world/rss.xml
Blatter 'under investigation in US'
Hopes fade in Yangtze boat rescue
Hadron collider to turn on data tap
Greek PM set for Brussels talks
Boko Haram leader not in new video

Footnotes
----------

[1] This file should be signed in two ways: (1) via detached GPG
signatures by each of the signers, distributed together with this
canary in qubes-secpack.git repo, and (2) via digitial signatures on
the corresponding qubes-secpack.git repo tags.

[2] Don't trust just the contents of this file blindly, go and verify
the digital signatures!
