
                    ---===[ Qubes Canary 029 ]===---


Statements
-----------

The Qubes security team members who have digitally signed this file [1]
state the following:

1. The date of issue of this canary is December 13, 2021.

2. There have been 74 Qubes security bulletins published so far.

3. The Qubes Master Signing Key fingerprint is:

       427F 11FD 0FAA 4B08 0123  F01C DDFA 1A3E 3687 9494

4. No warrants have ever been served to us with regard to the Qubes OS
   Project (e.g. to hand out the private signing keys or to introduce
   backdoors).

5. We plan to publish the next of these canary statements in the first
   fourteen days of March 2022. Special note should be taken if no new
   canary is published by that time or if the list of statements changes
   without plausible explanation.


Special announcements
----------------------

Many PGP keys in the Qubes security pack (qubes-secpack) that are used
elsewhere in the project (such as the Qubes builder), including the
Qubes Master Signing Key (QMSK), were signed or self-signed using the
SHA-1 hash function. Unlike some other uses of SHA-1, its use in PGP
signatures does not pose a security risk unless an adversary is capable
of performing a successful preimage attack (not merely a collision
attack). Since there are presently no known feasible attacks against the
preimage resistance of full SHA-1, our use of SHA-1 in PGP signatures
does not currently pose any security risk. Nonetheless, as a preemptive
defense-in-depth enhancement, we have decided to re-(self-)sign many of
these keys using SHA-256 or SHA-512. [3]

In addition, the qubes-secpack contains several expired code signing
keys, old release keys, and keys belonging to individuals who are no
longer active Qubes core developers. We have decided to move these keys
into a new "retired" subdirectory. (We've decided to move them rather
than delete them, since some users may wish to use them to authenticate
old signatures. Note that this is merely a matter of convenience, since
even deleted files always remain in the Git repository's history and can
always be retrieved that way.)

To be clear, none of the actions described here constitute a response to
any security incident. To our knowledge, the keys in the qubes-secpack
are not and have never been at risk. No key fingerprints have changed as
a result of these actions. We consider this updating and cleanup of the
keys to be more of "housekeeping" task.


Disclaimers and notes
----------------------

We would like to remind you that Qubes OS has been designed under the
assumption that all relevant infrastructure is permanently compromised.
This means that we assume NO trust in any of the servers or services
which host or provide any Qubes-related data, in particular, software
updates, source code repositories, and Qubes ISO downloads.

This canary scheme is not infallible. Although signing the declaration
makes it very difficult for a third party to produce arbitrary
declarations, it does not prevent them from using force or other means,
like blackmail or compromising the signers' laptops, to coerce us to
produce false declarations.

The proof of freshness provided below serves to demonstrate that this
canary could not have been created prior to the date stated. It shows
that a series of canaries was not created in advance.

This declaration is merely a best effort and is provided without any
guarantee or warranty. It is not legally binding in any way to anybody.
None of the signers should be ever held legally responsible for any of
the statements made here.


Proof of freshness
-------------------

Mon, 13 Dec 2021 01:15:23 +0000

Source: DER SPIEGEL - International (https://www.spiegel.de/international/index.rss)
Resurrection of the SP: The Unexpected Rise of Germany's New Chancellor, Olaf Scholz
BioNTech Founder Şahin on the Omicron Variant: “It Will Make Scientific Sense To Offer Booster after Three Months”
City of Warriors: Resistance Across the Border to the Myanmar Military Junta
Deadly Intrigue: The Story of the Destruction of an Aid Organization
The One-Man State: Viktor Orbán and the Fall of Democracy in Hungary

Source: NYT > World News (https://rss.nytimes.com/services/xml/rss/nyt/World.xml)
Haiti’s Leader Kept a List of Drug Traffickers. His Assassins Came for It.
‘Our Boat Was Surrounded by Dead Bodies’: Witnessing a Migrant Tragedy
Israeli Leader Travels to U.A.E., Showcasing Deepening Ties
New Caledonia Says ‘Non’ to Independence
Diplomats Warn Russia of ‘Massive Consequences’ if It Invades Ukraine

Source: BBC News - World (https://feeds.bbci.co.uk/news/world/rss.xml)
Kentucky tornadoes: Death toll likely to pass 100, governor says
Kentucky tornadoes: 100 year-old-church destroyed in seconds
Vladimir Putin: I moonlighted as a taxi driver in the 1990s
Black Axe: Leaked documents shine spotlight on secretive Nigerian gang
Alibaba fires woman who claimed sexual assault

Source: Blockchain.info
00000000000000000001b7c62afe91ab5ddb7ce534f4868fc71e4c9e4797f7b2


Footnotes
----------

[1] This file should be signed in two ways: (1) via detached PGP
signatures by each of the signers, distributed together with this canary
in the qubes-secpack.git repo, and (2) via digital signatures on the
corresponding qubes-secpack.git repo tags. [2]

[2] Don't just trust the contents of this file blindly! Verify the
digital signatures! Instructions for doing so are documented here:
https://www.qubes-os.org/security/pack/

[3] https://github.com/QubesOS/qubes-issues/issues/6470

--
The Qubes Security Team
https://www.qubes-os.org/security/
