
             ---===[ Qubes Security Bulletin 111 ]===---

                             2026-03-26

                     xfce4-screensaver login bypass

User action
------------

Continue to update normally [1] in order to receive the security updates
described in the "Patching" section below. No other user action is
required in response to this QSB.

Summary
--------

When activating the xfce4-screensaver login prompt on a locked screen,
there is a very short window of time during which keyboard input is not
intercepted by xfce4-screensaver and is instead sent to the application
that was active before locking.

Impact
-------

The time window is normally too short for any real harm to occur when
the user is physically typing on the keyboard. However, if an attacker
is able to generate input events in an automated way, the attacker can
attempt to deactivate the screensaver by sending a command quickly
enough.

Affected systems
-----------------

The default Qubes OS 4.3 configuration, which uses xfce4-screensaver and
the Xfce desktop environment, is affected. Other Qubes OS releases and
other screensavers are not affected.

Systems that permit an attacker physical access to a keyboard interface
are affected. Most systems permit such access in some way, since the
user's legitimate keyboard must connect to the system through such an
interface, but the degree of difficulty for the attacker varies
significantly depending on the nature of the interface:

 - The easiest method for an attacker is unrestricted USB keyboard input
   without a confirmation prompt, but this is disabled in Qubes OS by
   default. However, users can override this default configuration to
   allow unrestricted USB keyboard input, and many users do so because
   they have no other way to connect a legitimate keyboard to their
   systems. If the user has allowed unrestricted USB keyboard input,
   then an attacker can easily and quickly generate keyboard input
   events by connecting a USB device that emulates a keyboard.

 - An attacker could also use a non-USB keyboard input interface, such
   as a PS/2 port. However, such interfaces are less common nowadays.
   Nonetheless, if the system has such an interface, and if the attacker
   has physical access to it, then the system is affected, even if USB
   keyboard input is restricted.

 - Even when there is no keyboard input interface exposed on the outside
   of the machine as a convenient port, it may still be possible for the
   attacker to physically modify the machine in order to gain access to
   such an interface. For example, in most laptops, the physical
   keyboard is internally connected to the motherboard through a PS/2
   (or similar) interface. An attacker who can gain access to the
   internal components of the machine could disconnect the legitimate
   keyboard and attach his own malicious device to the same interface.
   However, this form of attack is significantly more complex than the
   foregoing attack vectors and requires extensive physical access,
   making it much more difficult to execute successfully.

It is worth noting that the window of time during which keyboard input
events are incorrectly delivered seems to vary significantly between
systems. In our internal testing, we were sometimes unable to get even a
single key event to bypass the login prompt. Meanwhile, one user
reported being able to manually type a full password before the login
prompt began properly intercepting keyboard input. While the precise
causes are not yet understood, it may be related to the interaction of
the graphics stack with the system's specific hardware configuration.

Patching
---------

The following packages contain security updates that address the
vulnerabilities described in this bulletin:

  For Qubes 4.3:
  - xfce4-screensaver 4.18.4-5

In systems without a GUI domain, this update will be applied in dom0.
For systems with a GUI domain, this update will be distributed via the
distribution repositories (e.g., Fedora or Debian) of the template on
which the GUI domain is based.

These packages will migrate from the security-testing repository to the
current (stable) repository over the next two weeks after being tested
by the community. [2] Once available, the packages should be installed
via the Qubes Update tool or its command-line equivalents. [1]

Dom0's user session must be restarted afterward in order for the updates
to take effect. This can be accomplished by logging out of Xfce4, then
logging back in again, or by simply restarting the system.

Credits
--------

The issue was reported by Murat Altindis and Maria Kessler of AWARE7
GmbH.

Qubes issue #10720 [3] is likely a report of the same problem. This
issue was incorrectly identified as a duplicate of another issue that
sounds similar but that is not relevant to the security of Qubes OS.

References
-----------

[1] https://www.qubes-os.org/doc/how-to-update/
[2] https://www.qubes-os.org/doc/testing/
[3] https://github.com/QubesOS/qubes-issues/issues/10720

--
The Qubes Security Team
https://www.qubes-os.org/security/
