
             ---===[ Qubes Security Bulletin 105 ]===---

                              2024-10-17

    Missing enforced decorations for stubdomain windows under KDE

User action
------------

Continue to update normally [1] in order to receive the security updates
described in the "Patching" section below. No other user action is
required in response to this QSB.

Summary
--------

Qubes OS enforces the drawing of specific window decorations (e.g.,
colored borders around windows) in order to assist the user in
recognizing which window belongs to which qube. This applies both to
normal windows with title bars as well as other windows like menus
(which, behind the scenes, are separate windows). The window manager in
dom0 is responsible for drawing both the title bar and the window
border. For normal windows, the color of the title bar and border
matches the qube's color label, and the text in the title bar is
prefixed with the qube's name in brackets. Windows without title bars
have only colored borders.

A qube running in HVM mode may optionally use an emulated display
instead of the seamless Qubes GUI integration. This emulation is done by
QEMU running in a so-called stubdomain, which is a little helper VM
running alongside the main VM. There is also a GUI daemon that is
responsible for handling the GUI requests that come from the stubdomain.

Due to an error, when running under KDE, this GUI daemon is not being
instructed to set the window properties (as required by KDE) necessary
to display the correct title prefix and colored border.

Impact
-------

An attacker who manages to compromise an HVM qube's stubdomain (which
would require discovering and exploiting an independent vulnerability)
can create windows that are missing the usual enforced decorations. Such
windows would instead have the same title bar and borders as normal dom0
windows. An attacker could attempt to use such a window to deceive or
confuse the user into thinking that the window belongs to dom0.

An attacker could also attempt to make such a window appear to belong to
another qube by prefixing the text in the title bar with that qube's
name. However, since the attacker cannot control the windows' border
color, the border will not match that qube's color label. Instead, the
borders of such windows will always use the default color set by the
window manager theme in dom0.

Moreover, every window has an icon that is displayed, by default, in the
title bar, the taskbar, and the task switcher. These icons are still
correctly colored in accordance with their respective qubes' color
labels. In addition, all windows without title bars still have their
correct border colors.

Affected systems
-----------------

Only systems using KDE as the desktop environment in dom0 are affected.
The default desktop environment in Qubes OS is Xfce, and KDE is not
installed by default. This means that users must manually install KDE in
dom0 and opt to use it as their desktop environment in order for their
systems to be affected by this vulnerability.

Only qubes running in HVM mode are affected. In the default Qubes OS
configuration, only sys-net and sys-usb run in HVM mode.

If an HVM qube has the `gui-emulated` feature set to '' (i.e., the empty
string, not to be confused with an unset feature) and the `debug`
property set to "false," then that HVM qube is not affected by this
vulnerability, since there will be no running GUI daemon for its
stubdomain unless manually requested by the user.

Patching
---------

The following packages contain security updates that address the
vulnerabilities described in this bulletin:

  For Qubes 4.2, in dom0:
  - python3-qubesadmin version 4.2.15

These packages will migrate from the security-testing repository to the
current (stable) repository over the next two weeks after being tested
by the community. [2] Once available, the packages are to be installed
via the Qubes Update tool or its command-line equivalents. [1]

In order for the update to take effect, the graphical user session in
dom0 must be restarted. This can be accomplished either by logging out
and back in again or by a full restart of the system.

Credits
--------

The bug was reported by Yaroslav Bolyukin.

References
-----------

[1] https://www.qubes-os.org/doc/how-to-update/
[2] https://www.qubes-os.org/doc/testing/

--
The Qubes Security Team
https://www.qubes-os.org/security/
