
             ---===[ Qubes Security Bulletin 120 ]===---

                              2026-09-28

                      Policy bypass in CTAP proxy

User action
------------

Continue to update normally [1] in order to receive the security updates
described in the "Patching" section below. No other user action is
required in response to this QSB.

Summary
--------

The CTAP proxy [3] allows usage of hardware authentication devices that
uses one of the CTAP protocols and are attached to a USB qube by other
qubes. Depending on version and usage CTAP and related components that
make use of it are also known as U2F, CTAP1, CTAP2, FIDO2, WebAuthn,
passkeys.

CTAP requests forwarded through the CTAP proxy can be controlled through
qrexec policies. Different request types are handled by different qrexec
services (ctap.ClientPin, ctap.GetInfo, u2f.Authenticate, u2f.Register).
Additionally the u2f.Authenticate service can be limited to specific
credentials by only allowing specific qrexec service arguments.

It was discovered that vulnerable versions of the CTAP proxy did not
enfore that CTAP requests match the requested service type.

An additionaly vulnerability in the u2f.Authenticate service allowed a
qube, which is limited by the qrexec policy to send qrexec requests with
specific service arguments, to send a CTAP2 request requesting multiple
assertions (used for authentication) as long as any of those matched the
allowed service argument.

Impact
-------

The broken request type filtering allows a qube that was allwed access
to any of the CTAP releated qrexec services to send any request type. So
for example even if the policy only allowed access to ctap.GetInfo the
qube could send a authentication request. In realistic configuration
this in particular mean that the argument based filtering of access to
specific credentials was ineffective since a qube could send the
authentication requests through one of the other allowed services.
Unlike the bug in the argument based filterting this affects all CTAP
versions.

The bug in u2f.Authenticate's filtering based on the service arguments
allows a qube that is supposed to only access certain credentials on a
forwarded authentication device to use any credentials for CTAP2 (but
not CTAP1) assertion requests, therefore using those credentials for
authentication even though it it should not.

Affected systems
-----------------

Only systems that use CTAP proxy are affected.

For practical use only setups that use a qrexec policy that restricts
qubes access to a subset of the credentials available on the
authentication device are affected. Since otherwise the qube already has
intentionally access to any credential on the device.

The issue was introduced in qubes-ctap package version 2.0.0, older
versions of the package (known as qubes-u2f before) are not affected.

Discussion
-----------

The software accessing a hardware authentication device (either a real
one, or in this case an emulated one that forwards requests through
qrexec), usually a web browser, must limit what requests is sends to the
device. For example if you visit example.org the browser must ensure
that that site can only requests authentication for example.org.
Therefore without a further bug there, a website can not make use of
these vulnerabilites. But the intention of Qube's CTAP proxy is (beside
making CTAP hardware devices usable at all) to further restrict the
access of qubes, such that even if the qube acts maliciously (for
example because the attacker compromised it), it can not access
credentials on the CTAP hardware it is not allowed. This later protction
is what was broken by the vulnerabilities discussed here.

Note on the qrexec policies were correctly enfored. So these are not
bugs in qrexec. The problem lies in the CTAP proxy implemention of the
qrexec services, breaking the intended semantics of the (correctly
enforeced) qrexec policies.

Patching
---------

The following packages contain security updates that address the
vulnerabilities described in this bulletin:

  For Qubes 4.3, in template for USB qube(s):
  - qubes-ctap package, version 2.0.8

These packages will migrate from the security-testing repository to the
current (stable) repository over the next two weeks after being tested
by the community. [2] Once available, the packages should be installed
via the Qubes Update tool or its command-line equivalents. [1]

USB qube must be restarted after it's template has been updated and
shutdown, in order for the updates to take effect.

Credits
--------

The CTAP2 authentication request vulnerability was reported by Giulio
Berra of Freedom of the Press Foundation. The command validation
vulnerability was discovered internaly by Piotr Bartman-Szwarc during
review of the previos report.

References
-----------

[1] https://doc.qubes-os.org/en/latest/user/how-to-guides/how-to-update.html
[2] https://doc.qubes-os.org/en/latest/user/downloading-installing-upgrading/testing.html
[3] https://doc.qubes-os.org/en/r4.3/user/security-in-qubes/ctap-proxy.html

--
The Qubes Security Team
https://www.qubes-os.org/security/
